# Geotab DIG Adapter

## Upgrade Guide: from v5.0.0 to v5.0.0.1

Latest Update: 2026-05-11

---

**Table of Contents**

- [Upgrading to v5.0.0.1](#upgrading-to-v5001)
  - [1 Download](#1-download)
  - [2 Stop Application](#2-stop-application)
  - [3 Backup Configuration Files](#3-backup-configuration-files)
  - [4 Deploy Application](#4-deploy-application)
  - [5 Start Application](#5-start-application)

---

## Upgrading to v5.0.0.1

> **WARNING!** The upgrade instructions provided in this document only apply to Geotab DIG Adapter version **5.0.0**.

There are **no changes to the Geotab DIG Adapter in version 5.0.0.1**. The version is updated for alignment with the broader MyGeotab API Adapter solution, in which a bug fix was made to a different component (the MyGeotab API Adapter). The Geotab DIG Adapter binaries are functionally identical between v5.0.0 and v5.0.0.1.

**Existing v5.0.0 installations of the Geotab DIG Adapter do not need to be upgraded** — there is no functional benefit to doing so. The instructions below apply only if you choose to upgrade for version-alignment purposes.

### 1 Download

Download the application following the [Download](../../README.md#12-download) instructions in the README.

### 2 Stop Application

Stop the Geotab DIG Adapter if it is running.

### 3 Backup Configuration Files

Backup the existing `appsettings.json` and `nlog.config` files (to keep track of the existing setting values).

### 4 Deploy Application

Replace the existing v5.0.0 application files with the new v5.0.0.1 application files. Restore the existing `appsettings.json` and `nlog.config` files (backed-up in [Step 3](#3-backup-configuration-files)) by copying them over the new ones — they do not need to be modified.

### 5 Start Application

Start the Geotab DIG Adapter application and monitor it and its logs for several minutes to ensure that it is working properly, indicating that the upgrade was successful.
