# MyGeotab API Adapter

## Upgrade Guide: from v4.1.2 to v5.0.0

Latest Update: 2026-04-30

---

**Table of Contents**

- [Upgrading to v5.0.0](#upgrading-to-v500)
  - [1 Download](#1-download)
  - [2 Stop Application](#2-stop-application)
  - [3 Backup Configuration Files](#3-backup-configuration-files)
  - [4 Upgrade Adapter Database](#4-upgrade-adapter-database)
  - [5 Deploy and Configure Application](#5-deploy-and-configure-application)
  - [6 Start Application](#6-start-application)

---

## Upgrading to v5.0.0

> **WARNING!** The upgrade instructions provided in this document only apply to MyGeotab API Adapter version **4.1.2**. If upgrading from an earlier version, after downloading the latest application executable package(s), it is necessary to FIRST follow the instructions and any associated guides in the [Change Log](../CHANGELOG.md) for each successive version up to and including v4.1.2 and THEN follow the instructions below.

Fully-detailed instructions for deploying the MyGeotab API Adapter solution to a **new environment** are provided in the [README](../README.md) (see [Section 1 Quick Start Guide](../README.md#1-quick-start-guide)).

To upgrade an **existing environment** in which version **4.1.2** of the MyGeotab API Adapter is already deployed, follow the steps in the sections below.

### 1 Download

Download the application and database scripts following the [Download](../README.md#12-download) instructions in the README.

### 2 Stop Application

Stop the MyGeotab API Adapter if it is running.

### 3 Backup Configuration Files

Backup the existing `appsettings.json` and `nlog.config` files (to keep track of the existing setting values).

### 4 Upgrade Adapter Database

There are **no schema changes** for the adapter database in this release. However, the database version is updated from 4.1.2.0 to 5.0.0.0 to align with the application version following the addition of the Geotab DIG Adapter to the solution.

Run the appropriate upgrade script for your database provider:

**SQL Server:**

```sql
-- Execute the upgrade script against the adapter database:
MSSQL_5.0.0.0_Upgrade.sql
```

**PostgreSQL:**

```sql
-- Execute the upgrade script against the adapter database:
PG_5.0.0.0_Upgrade.sql
```

**Verify the upgrade:**

```sql
-- SQL Server:
SELECT * FROM dbo.MiddlewareVersionInfo2 WITH (NOLOCK) ORDER BY RecordCreationTimeUtc DESC;

-- PostgreSQL:
SELECT * FROM "MiddlewareVersionInfo2" ORDER BY "RecordCreationTimeUtc" DESC;
```

The most recent row should show `DatabaseVersion` = `5.0.0.0`.

### 5 Deploy and Configure Application

This step is essentially [Step 2: Install](../README.md#12-download) and [Step 3: Configure](../README.md#14-deploy-and-configure-the-application) in the README. The existing folder containing the earlier version of the application can be backed-up and replaced with this new one, or this new one can be located alongside the old one with the old one serving as a backup.

#### appsettings.json

The `AddOns` configuration section (related to the deprecated VSS/OVDS feature) has been removed in version 5.0.0. No new settings were added in this release.

One option is to simply use the new `appsettings.json` file and update the values of all settings as desired. Another option is to use your already populated version 4.1.2 one and modify it by removing the `AddOns` section (if present). For the latter option, overwrite the new `appsettings.json` file with the version 4.1.2 one that was backed-up in [Step 3](#3-backup-configuration-files) and then remove the `AddOns` section if it exists.

#### nlog.config

No changes were made to `nlog.config` in version 5.0.0. If any customizations were made to the file, it is possible to simply overwrite the new `nlog.config` file with the version 4.1.2 one that was backed-up in [Step 3](#3-backup-configuration-files).

### 6 Start Application

Start the MyGeotab API Adapter application and monitor it and its logs for several minutes to ensure that it is working properly, indicating that the upgrade was successful.

